
1. Java Virtual Machine(JVM):

 i) writing phase --- the programmer will write the code.(Test.Java)
 ii) compilation phase --- javac is the compiler which will compile the source code to byte code(Test.class).
 iii) execution phase --- Java runtime environment (JRE) will execute the byte code.

2. Bytecode in the Development process: javac is the compiler which will compile the source code to byte code(Test.class). javap is the command to see the methods of the class.
 
3. Java Development Kit(JDK):  

	i) Java development tool kit : Which includes JRE,JAVAC and JAVA Debugger , Java docs. 
	ii) JDK is the platform dependent 
	
	Note : JDK is the platform dependent but the code generated by Java compiler is the platform independent 

4. Java Runtime Environment (JRE): 

	i) with JRE the byte code which is generated using compiler will be executed.

5. Garbage Collector: the programmer can't destroy the objects but we can specify the objects to be garbage collected.

6. ClassPath: is the path where the Java runtime and compiler will look .class files.

After installing JDK we have to set path : C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-17.0.2\bin;.

Features 
===============

1. Platform Independent:  

We can run the Java program in platform and compile it after compilation .class file will be generated. we can run this .class file in ant platform, this makes Java as a platform independent.

to execute .class the platform should have JRE.
Compile the code in one platform and run it in any of platforms in which the JRE installed.

2. Object-Oriented Programming Language(OOPS): collecting Java program in objects.

	1)Abstraction
	2)Encapsulation
	3)Inheritance
	4)Polymorphism


3. Simple: in Java we don't have pointers,Operator overloading,and Multiple inheritance is also not there then this makes Java as simple.

4. Robust: Java is more reliable. in Java we can fix most of the errors in compilation state this makes Java is robust.

5. Secure:  in Java we don't pointers(pointers refer the address location of the objects which is not secure).

6. Distributed: we can distribute Java application through network. we have Enterprise Java beans(EJB) and remote method invocation(RMI)

7. Multithreading: Executing program by multiple threads.

8. Portable: after compilation .class file will be generated this file we can send to any platform which makes Java as a portable.