java.net: java.net package can be used for networking programming.

		Network: internet connection of systems known as network.
		types of networks:
							1)LAN: local area network.
							2)MAN: metropolitan network
							3)WAN: wide area network
							4)WWW: world wide web
							
							
							WWW: world wide web and which is internet connection of internet servers across world.
							
					The network are categorised into two types.
					
					i) Server: The server is the system or program which can accepts the request from the client and provides the service.
					
					ii)Client: The Client is the system or program which sends request to server for service.
					
					
					protocol: protocols in the networking are rules and regulations followed by computer networks
					
					
					These protocols can be two types:
					
					i) Connection-Oriented protocol: In this type of protocols sender receives the acknowledgement from the receiver that the content has been received. 
					
							Ex: TCP/IP(Transmission control protocol/internet protocol) whats's app,facebook etc.
					ii) Connection-less protocol: In this type of protocols sender will not receives the acknowledgement from the receiver that the content has been received. 
					
							EX: UDP(User datagram protocol) best example is SMS 
							
							
					IP Address: It is the unique Identification number used to identify system in the networking.
					
					Socket: The logical connection which established between client and server is known as socket.
					
					Port Number: port numbers are numeric numbers which can be used for socket connection.
					
					Note: These port numbers can be 0-65535
					
					
					some of the reserved ports in networking:
					
						13 : date and time servers
						21: for FTP (File transfer protocol)
						25: Used for SMTP(Simple mail transfer protocol)
						80: used for Http(Hyper text transfer protocol).
						
						
						Classes from java.net package for networking:
						
						Socket, ServerSocket: Used for TCP/IP connection.
						DatagramPacket, DatagramSocket : For UDP connection.
						
						URL , URLConnection: Used for read and write the data from the internet.
						InetAddress: Used for to get IP address and host name of the system.